*****INTERVIEW QUESTIONS******
ANOOP P
CAPG48LSRB323


1.What is difference in Overloading and Over riding

Ans. 
If two or more methods in same class having the same name but different parameters it is known as Overloading. It is an 
example for complile time polymorphism.

if the methods in superclass and child class having same name and parameters then it is known as Overriding. Overriding is an example
for runtime polymorphism.

2.If both the functions are static can we over ride
Ans.
We can not override static methods, because overriding is based on dynamic binding at run time where as static metods are based on static
 binding and it happens at compile time

3. Diffference bew Final , Finally and Finalize
Ans.
*Final is the keyword and access modifier which is used to apply restrictions on a class, method or variable.

*Finally is the block in java exception handling to execute the important code whether the exception occurs or not.

*Finalize is the method is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

4.What are maker Interfaces
Ans.
A marker interface is an interface that has no methods or constants inside it.
 It provides run-time type information about objects,
 so the compiler and JVM have additional information about the object.

5.What is Singleton class
Ans.
Singleton is a design pattern that ensures that a class can only have one object at a time. 

6.What is the underlying Data structure for Arraylist and Linkedlist
Ans.
Both are two different imeplemetations of List interface.
The underlyind data structure for ArrayList is an array.
The underlying data structue for Linkedlist is list.

7.What is hash collitition
Ans.
Hash collision is a random match in hash values that occurs when a hashing algorithm produces the
 same hash value for two distinct pieces of data.

8.What are lambda Expressions
Ans.
Lambda expression is a short block of code which takes in parameters and returns a value.
Lambda expressions are similar to methods, but they do not need a name and they can be
implemented right in the body of a method.
parameter -> expression


9.Whats is functional interface
Ans.
A Functional interface is an interface with just one abstract method declared in it.
lambda expressions can be used to represent the instance of a functional interface. 
A functional interface can have any number of default methods.

10.What are optional classes in Java 8
Ans.
Opetional class is used to deal with NullPointerException.
It provides methods which are used to check the presence of value for particular variable.
we have to import Optional class from java.util package.

11.What is factory design pattern and Adapter and difference bew them
Ans.
*Factory pattern is one of the most used design patterns in Java.
This type of design pattern comes under creational pattern as this pattern provides one of the best ways to create an object.
In Factory pattern, we create object without exposing the creation logic to the client and refer to newly created
object using a common interface.

*Adapter pattern is a software design pattern that allows the interface of an existing class to be used as another interface.
for example we can consider a card reader as a real life example for adapter pattern

12.What are Solid principles
Ans.
SOLID is a popular set of design principles that are used in object-oriented software development.
SOLID stands for single responsibility principle, open-closed principle, Liskov substitution principle, 
interface segregation principle, and dependency inversion principle.

13. What does @component and @scan do in Sprinboot annaotation
Ans.
@Component indicates that a class might be a candidate for creating a bean. It's like putting a hand up.
@ComponentScan is searching packages for Components.

14.Whats is the Diference bew JPA , Hibernate and ORM
Ans.
JPA stands for java persistance api. It is a specification.It defines the management of relational data in the Java applications.
Hibernate is an Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) tool which is used to save the state of Java object into the database.

15.What is indexing in Database
Ans. 
Indexing is a way to optimize the performance of a database by minimizing the number of disk accesses
required when a query is processed. 
It is a data structure technique which is used to quickly locate and access the data in a database. 

16.What are 4 types of Drivers in Jdbc
Ans.
Type-1 driver or JDBC-ODBC bridge driver
Type-2 driver or Native-API driver
Type-3 driver or Network Protocol driver
Type-4 driver or Thin driver

17.What is difrence bew @component and @bean and @service
Ans.

@Bean is used to explicitly declare a single bean, rather than letting Spring do it automatically. 
If any class is annotated with @Component it will be automatically detect by using classpath scan.
 @Service annotates classes at the service layer. 

18. What is difference bew SOAP and restful services techinically
Ans.
SOAP stands for Simple Object Access Protocol.
REST stands for REpresentational State Transfer.
SOAP is a standardized protocol for pre-defined rules to follow.
REST has an architectural style with loose guidelines.
SOAP is functional-driven, means that data here is available as services, eg, getUser
REST is data-driven, meaning that data is available asresources.

19 . Difference in POST and PUT
Ans.
PUT method is call when you have to modify a single resource, which is already a part of resource collection.
 POST method is call when you have to add a child resource under resources collection.

20.IS react uni directional or Bi directional
Ans.
React is uni directional.It is has a uni directional flow.
This means that the child components cannot update or modify the data on their own, makeing sure that a clean data flow architecture is followed. 
This also means that you can control the data flow better.

